---
date: 2023-11-08
categories:
  - Announcements
---

# Changes to scratch storage policies

Research Computing is making policy changes regarding scratch storage organization and retention. This is in response to the increasing needs of users, and represent best practice.

!!! info "Policy updates"
    - User scratch directories (/scratch/u/...) will be deleted
    - Files in scratch that are older than 90 days will be automatically deleted

<!-- more -->

## User scratch removal

Research Computing will no longer provide user scratch directories. For reference, these directories have been located at `/scratch/u/NetID`. This is a response to user feedback about confusion over purpose of user vs. group scratch. Additionally, we have found that group scratch is more heavily utilized, and more actively utilized, i.e., less old data. We encourage all users to cleanup their user scratch data immediately. Research Computing will **begin deleting these directories on February 1, 2024**.

!!! info "User software"
    In response to user feedback, we are increasing the size of user home directories from 50GiB to 100GiB to accomodate relocation of user-installed software from user scratch to home directory. This change is **effective December 1, 2023**.

## Scratch retention

Research Computing has had documented guidance for use of scratch storage in the HPC environment since the start of operations for the HPC cluster. This included a purge, or data deletion, policy for old files in the scratch file system. Historically, we have not enforced this policy in any automated way. In fact, we have only emailed our MCW users to manually cleanup their scratch space when storage ran out. This has led to issues with users storing old data in scratch that is not needed and takes up valuable space meant for new work.

To fix these issues, Research Computing will begin deleting old scratch data with an automated script. The script will daily scan all files and directories in your scratch space and move any files older than 90 days to a daily trash space. After 14 days, a daily trash space will expire and be deleted. This means that the scratch file system will be cleaned up every day, and you will have the opportunity to retrieve those old files for an additional 14 days.

This scratch retention process is **effective February 1, 2024**. For details, please review the [scratch retention](../../storage/rcc-storage.md#retention) information.
