---
date: 2024-10-15
categories:
  - Announcements
---

# Storage price increase in 2025

Research Computing is increasing the price of group storage starting in 2025. Due to the late notice of pricing change, this will apply only to payments for net new storage allocations in 2025. Storage renewals for 2025 will be processed in January at the current rate.

<!-- more -->

In FY22, RCC added replication storage to provide vital data protections for all group storage directories. This enhancement effectively doubled the cost of storage. At that time, RCC chose not to increase the price of storage beyond the current $60/TB/year until the end of the original storage lifetime. As we approach that end of lifetime, and consider renewal and expansion, we must now adjust our pricing to maintain a sustainable service for research. The new pricing structure will be implemented 2025-2027 as follows:

**2025 - $80/TB/year**  
**2026 - $100/TB/year**  
**2027 - $120/TB/year**

We understand that some investigators may question if replication can be optional to reduce cost. However, due to the nature of our storage solution, replication must be universal and cannot be optional. Research Computing will re-evaluate storage pricing again in FY27 to account for changing needs and functionality.

In summary, storage renewals for 2025 will be processed in January at the 2024 rate of $60/TB/year. All net new (non-renewal) storage payments in 2025 will be processed at the 2025 rate of $80/TB/year. Beyond 2025, all storage payments (renewal or not) will be processed at the respective yearly rates shown above.

Please contact {{ support_email }} with any questions/concerns.
